---
layout: post
title: Completed Program
---

Woah I completed my program, that means its been over a year since I began my journey to learn how to write code. I remember when I was first learning to declare variables or creating for loops, all of which is super simple to me now. I also remember thinking that using red or blue for function names was a good idea, thank god I am not that person anymore and I learned about naming conventions because god would it be painful to work with code with names like that.

When I began my software development program at bloc I went it with the attitude I am going to learn as much as possible and get a job so I can help out my family and do something I genuinely love. I'll admit half way through the program I felt like it was a waste of money, because they kept redirecting me to other sites with free content that I could have searched up myself, not to mention I felt that my mentors weren't answering any questions or rather I wasn't asking anything specific so we would just talk. I was starting to think I was a fake I wouldn't be able to create anything because if I wasn't following a guide I was really lost in creating anything with Javascript or Ruby on Rails.

Its been over 11 months since I began that journey and now I can say holy crap I am legit and I can say this because everything is finally 'clicking'. Understanding how everything connects together, how to create calls to an API and parsing that data so you can use it in your app makes sense to me. If someone wants to create a type of website or app I have some suggestions on which type of technology to use and what not to use. I understand data structures, and understand algorithms and measuring their complexity. I understand what is a database and how to pull queries from them so you can use the data. I can solve coding challenges that are 6 or 6 kata when I used to struggle with 7 kata(this is referring to codewar's difficulty ranking system). I have gotten paid to develop a site and I have coded some games for fun so I can admit I was wrong 5-6 months ago and I did learn how to develop code.

Spending 25k on a software development program that mainly provided links to free content may sound like an insane investment but I actually ended up learning how to code this way and I can and have pair programmed with University graduates who are surprised to hear I didn't attend college. It has been 2 months since I began my job search and I haven't had the success I wanted but I am getting phone calls and organizing step 1 in interviews. To my this was only worth it if I come out with a job at the end of it. So I guess I'll make another post talking about whether the software development program was worth it to me but for now I have to admit I did learn a lot.